This is about one-sixth of the children's books, and it's principally English books of the 18th and 19th century.
I really want to get some keys.
You said you wanted to see some things.
Let me just get here.
Look around for a minute.
There are a whole series of these.
This is called the Infant's Cabinet, and these are little, in this case, books.
of instruction.
And this one, I think, is of Byrds.
John Marshall is a publisher in London.
It's a late 18th century.
Isn't that great?
And there are, there's a series of these.
We have some of the only known copies, surviving copies.
Wow, what is this one?
Oh look at this one.
Children use these and they're still intact.
This is the level of quality of this collection.
This is about 1810.
OCLC records one other set in North America.
I wonder if this one has a... You call that an infant's library.
Is that what you call it?
Yeah.
Infant's library.
I think that's what Marshall called it.
It says so right on here on the painted board.
The infant's library?
Yeah.
Oh, this is from Dalte Welch's collection.
Now, you know, he gave his American collection to the American Antiquarian Society.
His English side of it came here.
The English books of Dalte Welch came here.
No, it's ours.
How does he spell the name?
Small d apostrophe, A-L-T-E, Welch, W-E-L-C-H.
There's a bibliography of American children's books by him.
That's the standard bibliography, and the collection is that American Antiquarian Society.
They're children's books in America.
Yeah.
And he and Wilbur Smith were close friends, and when Dolphy died, Ann Welch gave the English books to UCLA, his memory.
Thank you.
There's also the infant cabinet, but I don't see it, which is like little flashcards.
They're similar sort of thing.
Also published by Marshall, but I think you get a sense of that.
One of the other things that we'd like to talk about here is condition.
Right, which I said.
Yeah.
This is from the George Shires Library.
This is another one of our children's books.
And a lot of these 19th century ones are prescriptive sorts of things.
And I think this is a Mariah Edgeworth.
Oh, it's dedicated to her.
We have Mariah Edgeworth's library as well.
The early children's books did tend to be prescriptive like that.
Yeah, in that period.
This room, which was established by one of our former English faculty members for the Sadler collection, it's now, that little quarter of it is now publications as well.
So anyway, but this is the original Sadler collection of about 9,000 volumes.
It's on the shelf in Sadler number order.
I have the catalog.
You have the Sadler catalog.
The one that he did.
Yeah.
I think one of the things that's troublesome to us about this now is that
We acquired the collection around 1950.
We have more than doubled it in size.
And I think Texas, for example, touts the Wolf Collection says, oh, we're much bigger than Sadler.
Well, certainly as far as the published bibliography is concerned.
The original Sadler had about 3,000 titles.
No, about 4,000 titles and about 9,000 volumes.
We have about 20,000 volumes now.
But we kept the original Sadler intact, and the rest of the books are in our rare book stacks.
I want to show you a couple things.
And what's also nice about when we move to the new quarters, they all come out very easily in the room, getting reconstructed.
Just to show you, again, the issue of condition.
This is for double-decker by Robert Brody.
We put the wrappers on it.
This is a chintz binding.
Look at this.
It's like it just came off the press.
Yeah.
And when you think that this was the popular literature of the 19th century, that's one of my favorite findings.
A lot of the books are just in paper wrappers.
Okay.
We had a visitor recently in there.
Does this collection get much use among researchers?
A fair amount.
I don't know if you see any slips on the shelves, but wherever there's a call slip, there's something to use.
We had somebody here from Cambridge
within the past couple of weeks doing some work.
And are there any favorite authors of yours of this period?
I'll go with Warpage.
Remember that, as I started to say, this was the popular literature of the 19th century, you know, the kinds of books we would take to the beach for the summer reading nowadays.
I mean, to find copies in this condition is unbelievable.
and we're still doing it.
One of the few great collections of sets when you think about it, isn't it?
Right, yeah.
There are the yellowbacks, too.
Yeah, that's actually the Virginian parts.
I'm sorry, yeah.
But yeah, the yellowbacks are in here.
That's right.
Oh, there they are.
Yeah, I'm sorry, yeah.
Sorry about this furniture.
I can again open up.
No, it's fine.
So it's like a time capsule collection, isn't it?
It really does speak for time.
Yeah.
That's being used right now.
Now, you said you had, I think the figure was 25 million manuscript items in this building?
No.
No, they're not housed here.
They're processed here, they're used here, but we have a special building on campus called the Southern Regional Library Facility.
There's a whole floor dedicated to special collections there, and I'd say about 99.9 of the manuscript collections are there.
It occupies almost eight miles of shelf.
And if you want something, you request it here, and you bring it... It's all done on the computer.
On our Orion system, there's a record for every collection, and then on that record is a status screen that, on a box-by-box item, box-by-box level, it says where the box is shelved.
Readers use a finding aid here, a list that says...
All right, let's take the California ephemera.
They're interested in Caltech.
They get the finding aid out.
They see that it's box 83.
We put the request in.
It's here at 3 o'clock in the afternoon.
And then it stays here as long as the reader wants to use it.
Oh, that's great.
That's pretty prompt.
If your request is in by 11, you will have it by 3.
That's extraordinary.
Most places will take longer.
Well, their building is not on campus.
See, ours is on campus, and it's also shared by the other four
University of California campus is in the south, but it's not on their campus, it's on ours, so that's why we had that.
That's right, that was one of the things they had to, you know, press the stuff in.
Right, and we have a van, and we have a process to get the stuff over here pretty quickly.
That's very nice.
Yeah, but when you asked about, this is the back of the thing.
Oh, by the way, this is what we're wearing, this is what we're wearing materials in.
This is an orchestra collection.
The blue ones are ours, the red ones are Berkley's.
We have an exchange with them, but whatever you ask for is something like that.
Okay.
That was an early one.
Relatively early one.
They're on the shelf in order.
Here's Ward Ritchie's.
In order of completion, not an alphabetical one.
That's fine.
We're fairly automated.
We do our finding aids on a D-based system.
One of my staff and my senior manuscripts processor wrote an article in Real Books and Manuscripts Librarianship about how we process that way.
That's more of the children's books over there.
We've kind of got them wherever we can shell them.
And then, finally, there's just one more process in the manuscript as well.
Thank you.
That's a good question.
Is everything pretty much, are you pretty much up to date on cataloging?
Sort of.
With our Orion system, let's start with books, we don't have complete cataloging for everything, but we have an in-process record for almost everything.
There are, out of the 310,000 books, I would say maybe only...
about 50,000 do not have an online record of some sort, but they might have cards in the card catalog.
We're still trying to convert things to the online system.
For the manuscripts collection, virtually every collection has a collection level description.
Now, to what extent the collection then has a finding aid to go with it and how detailed that finding aid is, that's where we get into the realm of how well processed is a collection.
The W. W. Robinson papers are processed almost to the item level.
The papers of the 1984 Olympic Organizing Committee, which runs to 1,400 of these dock boxes, are processed to the folder level only, and they're 30,000 folders.
Do you really want that?
Yeah, it's used.
Yeah, the Barcelona people were here for a long time.
That's a good point.
You don't know what's going to be.
You don't, do you?
That's exactly the point.
But anyway, I mean, this is the back room.
This is the grunt area.
The last thing to show you is the stack.
This is about...
half of the rare book collection, other than what you saw in the rooms upstairs.
So the rest of the Sadler books are you going to find under L.C.
classification and the PRs for English literature.
Oh, I know what I want to do.
We don't lock the vaults at all, but I just want you to see how it happened on the show.
I was going to show you this one.
This is the old vault, huh?
Yeah, but I mean, the whole floor could serve that purpose.
Let me just see if I have one goodie to show you.
Okay, this is fun.
This is a proof copy of Virginia Woolf's Mrs. Dalloway.
It's all proof copy?
Yeah, with her corrections in it.
It's really fragile, but... Look at that.
I'll try and find it.
It says First Proof, and it's a presentation copy.
I forgot who Jacques is.
6th February 25, Mrs. Follower.
That's love.
Oh, Virginia.
And let's see, somewhere along in here are some...
serious annotations.
There's not a lot in here, actually.
Enough to make it certainly a variant, did you think?
I'm sorry?
Would you say this is a variant?
Well, it's a proof, so it wasn't the first issue even.
Oh, here's something, where she typed something in like this and crossed that out.
And so it went off back to the publishers and then
The first printed edition will show this in it rather than what was in it.
Which makes it a very, very good collectible item, doesn't it, in the first edition.
For scholars today, where everyone's writing on the computers, you don't see that the vision is so small.
No, you don't, unless people are archiving to disk one version, and every time they sit down, they copy it and then start on the next.
Only if they're thinking of prosperity.
Yeah, and who is, right?
I don't know.
It's a practical matter.
You just keep revising and saving, you know.
Yeah.
George V. Higgins.
Oh, this is Second Addiction.
That's another area.
We have Raymond Chandler's papers.
This is great.
So this is nice.
Condition seems to have been...
I'll bet you Larry set that standard from the beginning, didn't he?
And when we're trying to adhere to it, I mean, you'll find very few shabby books in the collection, and we also look for completeness.
We're not very much into collecting bindings, so we'd rather have a complete text with an ordinary binding than something with an American binding.
I don't see where that belongs in the University Research Library, especially this day.
What bindings?
Not in and of themselves.
I mean, in the Albion collection, we have some Grolier bindings, but that came... It's sort of incidental to...
Well, again, any subject areas of interest?
No, I think we've covered it.
Do you think we could go over to the Clark guy?
I'll show you how to do that.
No, we might have to make a call from here.
I called yesterday, and they told me I couldn't get in unless he... I guess Dr. Hall, was that his name?
Yeah, Michael Hall.
He was here with you, I think, yesterday.
The building was begun in 1925.
The architect's name is Robert Farquhar.
He was classically trained in Paris.
He studied the École des Beaux-Arts for about six years, became very familiar with Baroque style.
And Clark decided in the early 20s his collection was overrunning his house and he needed a separate place for it.
So he commissioned Farquhar to build this library.
This particular book room is...
based on a library room at the Chateau de Chantilly.
They have a very long library there that looks just like this with this lovely mezzanine here in a rectangular shape.
In here are the earliest works in Clark's collection.
He began with Elizabethan authors collecting the folios of Shakespeare.
There's a complete set in this bookcase here.
These are the four folios over here?
Yes.
Did he acquire these himself, or did he have somebody doing it for him?
Well, he did have book dealers who looked out for him, but he took a very active interest in his collection at all times.
He was most unusual in that he never bought up libraries.
He specifically went after books, certain unique books.
What am I trying to say?
Individual books, that's what I mean, rather than getting another man's collection.
Exactly.
In the bookcases over on this side are 19th century first editions, and you'll see the originals of the Charles Dickens when Bleak House came out in serial form.
In parts.
That's right.
And the mezzanine above us, from about here all the way to the end, are the complete works and
prose and plays of Oscar Wilde.
We have the largest institutional repository of Wilde's writings, including his manuscripts.
Richard Ellman based most of his research on the Clark collection.
This was added to the Clark collection?
This is again Mr. Clark collecting.
This was his modern author.
I should mention that after
He came on the market starting as most late 19th century, early 20th century collectors did with Shakespeare and 19th century first editions.
Folger and Huntington had already been making great inroads.
Prices were high and Clarke decided he needed to specialize in an area that people weren't interested in and very cleverly he chose Restoration England and centered his collection around the works of John Dryden.
When we go into the South Book Room, I'll talk more about that.
This was built as a private library.
Yes, it was.
If you notice, the bookcases are made of bronze, not wood.
I've never seen bronze.
You might wonder where Clark got his wealth.
His father was an early pioneer.
He came from Philadelphia during the Civil War, settled in Montana because he found a very good vein of copper ore there and started an empire.
None of the children had to work for a living.
They all inherited large sums of money.
Although Clark did graduate from the University of Virginia with a law degree and practiced law for one year.
Were they Californians, did you say?
No.
The great-grandparents were Irish immigrants, settled in Philadelphia.
Clark's father, the senator, came west to Montana, and Clark was born in Butte, Montana.
Were other Clark family members book collectors, or was he the only one?
Yes, his brother Charles was.
He had an interesting collection of French literature and incunabula.
He had a lot of personal problems.
He was a gambler and an alcoholic, and before he died, he'd lost most of his collection.
Oh, so none of the incunables are here then?
No.
We do have a little bit of incunabula here, but not a lot.
That wasn't Clark's focus.
That was not his interest.
That's right.
Great.
When we're done, maybe if I could just shoot a couple pictures.
Sure.
Suzanne, I didn't get your full name, just so I could know it.
And how do you spell that?
T-A-T-I-A-N.
Great.
Thank you.
Well, we have events.
People come in through the front door.
And it started out on this marble vestibule.
In 1919, Farquhar had fashioned a mausoleum for Clark, which was a thing to do in the 20s.
It's at the Hollywood Cemetery.
It looks like a little Greek temple.
And inside, he did this marvelous marble mosaic floor.
And Clark asked him to do the same thing in the library.
So he chose about 14 varieties of very rare Roman and Greek marble.
The man who did the ceiling is Alan Cox.
He was a muralist.
His father was a muralist, Kenyon Cox of New York, and his mother was a portrait painter, so he learned from an early age.
He too was classically trained.
He spent his early life at the American Academy at Rome.
was a devotee of Michelangelo.
So he and Farquhar, the architect, made a very good team.
The Celia is a tribute to Clark's interest in the humanities.
There's Apollo here with his mother Leto and the nine dioses.
And then in the individual niches are symbols of Clark's interest.
For instance, he was an amateur violinist.
who established the Los Angeles Philharmonic in 1919.
He was also interested in astronomy, so we have our military sphere.
Books over here.
The condition of these books is magnificent.
The condition is called extraordinary.
And then Zach was interested in not just painting, but architectural painting.
There was a T-square and a triangle here.
This is the bus at the center.
Isn't this splendid?
Was his house as lavish as this on the grounds?
Well, no.
His house was built just about the turn of the century, and it was a nice, large, craftsman-looking house, but of no particular architectural distinction.
The special thing about this library was that Clark could give Farquhar a blank check.
And so the finest materials were used and the best craftsmen because Farquhar and the painter Alan Cox were perfectionists.
This room is a special tribute to Clark's interest in his author John Dryden.
His portrait sits right there.
Is that a contemporary portrait of Dryden?
Yes.
The murals are depicting Clark's favorite Dryden play which is All for Love.
On this side we have All for Love and on this side
Shakespeare's Angenean Cleopatra, from which it was adapted.
And on the ceilings, not only do you have more scenes from the play, but some vignettes of scenes from Ovid's Metamorphosis, because, of course, Dryden's later part of life translated a great deal for a joint Ovid.
Beautiful.
Oh.
I was just pausing to see if you had any questions.
What kind of wood?
This is English oak.
It's all hand carved.
It was carved in New York and then shipped across by train and fitted in here.
In fact, the murals that Cox has done here were painted in his New York studio, which is quite amazing because you look at the perspective, which is absolutely perfect.
The figures do look like they're dangling down from a story above.
He simply rolled up the canvases and came across and installed them.
There's a portrait of Clark right here, and he's sitting in one of the chairs here in the library.
All of the furniture here, by the way, is good 20th century reproduction, except for a few pieces, yes.
Yeah, a Pasadena firm called Hunt.
designed specifically for the library.
A few things are antique, but not many.
Carl Sanders, his
assistant who became a librarian here when Clark died in 1934.
She ran the library until 1941.
And over here is Robert Cowan, a San Francisco bibliographer who came to catalog Clark's works when it became too much of a task for Clark and his secretary Cora.
They envisioned that this would take Robert Cowan about six months and ended up taking him 13 years.
set of volumes that he produced which have been printed by San Francisco printer John Henry Nash on the Clark collection.
There's about 20 volumes here.
I'll just open a page.
Is this a catalog of the collection?
Yes, this is Cowan's work here.
This is on one aspect of the collection.
I should explain to you, there's three parts to Clark's collection that we've developed.
British literature and culture, 17th and 18th century, namely the years 1640 to 1750.
and then Oscar Wilde in the 1890s, and fine printing, which is what this represents.
Sure.
It's so wonderful to work here too.
Yeah, I mean you must be tickled every day.
Yes.
Thank you so much.
I know we took you out on a very busy, difficult day.
I've seen the computers all out and things are not wonderful.
Yeah, that's quite alright.
It's beautiful.
These are fine?
and the shutters in the drawing room were also ruins do you think he chose that for analytics uh protection or just yes he did um farquhar took a tour of libraries back east before he even designed this library and he um he left the j pierpont morgan library and uh paid particularly close attention to them he went back there three times he even wrote letters to clark about his um journeys
He chose very thick glass shelving because he thought wood would warp and metal would corrode.
And so he wanted something more caring for the books.
And he also has ventilation built in so we have enough air circulation so mold can't develop.
He's also managed to double-pane the windows and slant them so that the sunlight comes towards the center of the room rather than hitting the spines of the books.
He's taken a great deal of care and attention in how he's going to provide the environment.
I'll just show you the South Book Room.
This is an antique, actually.
maybe 14th, 15th century walnut refectory table from Italy.
And we have a very nice little pocket wheel over here, which you could have bought in a twacking shop in London.
And this one's special because it's showing the new constellations of Dr. Halley.
And it's also completing Australia and New Zealand because Captain Cook by then had circumnavigated the globe.
Oh, isn't that wonderful?
In this room is the core of our 17th and 18th century collection.
The works of John Dryden are right over there in those cabinets.
What makes a collection so fine is the depth of it.
Clark made sure that he collected not only every edition of Dryden's work that he could get his hands on, but copies of each edition because there wasn't such a thing as...
uniformity in the printing world.
Paper was expensive.
If a printer found errors in the text, he would correct as he went, so that one person's copy might be different from another's.
Not only that, but the printer had a great deal more control over the manuscript, and he could expurgate if he wanted, depending on the government
censorship and whether he thought he might get into trouble.
So it's good to have several editions and see how the work changes so you can get close to what the author might have been saying.
Did Mr. Clarke have a family?
Was this his family?
Yeah, this almost was his family and the people who worked for him.
He married in 1901 and had one son.
His name was William Andrews Clarke III, or Tertius for short.
His wife died a month after their son was born, so he married again a few years later, Alice McManus Clark, who came from Virginia City, and they didn't produce any children.
It was an eight-year marriage, and she died.
And then his son died in an airplane accident in 1932, two years before he died.
So he really has no direct descendant.
Which may be one of the reasons that he built this library.
Well, this library was built about 10 years before Tertius died.
Tertius wasn't interested in the library, so Clark asked the University of California if they would be interested, and he thought he would set it up as a memorial to his father, who had died in 25.
And he arranged for the deed to be passed on after his death.
It's really magnificent.
The condition of the books is just extraordinary, isn't it?
What was the approximate size of his collection?
When he died, I think that the library gained about 13,000 volumes and manuscripts, and we now have over 90,000 we continue to collect.
Did he leave funding for additional loans?
Yes, he did.
He left a very generous endowment, which the university invested, and we spend the interest
to run the library and to buy the books every year.
I don't think I'm at liberty to say.
Well, I could consult, you know, and tell you.
It's small, but I'm just curious.
It's not large enough these days.
I was curious to see how, because I know most of the others, and I was just wondering how it compares, like, to the $500,000 that John Carter Brown,
It was an enormous summer in those days, but which is nothing today.
Nothing seems to be great enough to keep up with the location of God.
But you certainly keep the place beautifully.
There's no chipping paint, so far as I can see.
No.
Well, everything is so well made, it's easy to keep the place.
You know, they didn't cut any corners when they built this.
The grounds are lovely, and you use the garden to be the garden.
Yes.
So this is run quite independently of the main campus at UCLA?
Well, because we're off campus, yes, in a way it is.
But we are owned by the university.
We follow university policy.
Anyone can use our collection.
They do not have to be scholars.
We often have the general public dropping in, although most of our readership is
postdoctoral international scholars because we offer fellowships and people can come here and study for a month or several months at a time.
We give them a stipend and we give them that cubicle downstairs and they can start a library of their own from our library.
Unlike most of the UCLA libraries, we are a non-circulating collection so people do have to come down here to see the books.
Do you get funds from the state?
We get funds from the state only for the library and salaries.
The endowment pays for almost everything.
Including new acquisitions and conservation and all that other stuff is done.
It's not unlike the J.C.
Brown and the Clintons in that respect.
Okay, well listen, I, you know, I'm trapped in.
I think we'll just be directed across.
Yeah.
Is that the modern-looking film?
Yes, it is.
There's nothing else in the shows upstairs, or this is basically it?
This is it.
Uh-huh.
Let me just check with Fran that she has one of those.